SUBMISSION.md, before:

# CADBridgeAI - Submission Package

**Group 19 | Data-Driven Engineering | WiSe 2025/26**

---

## 📦 Package Contents

This submission contains the complete working implementation of CADBridgeAI, our AI-driven STL to STEP converter.

### File Structure

```
cadbridgeai/
├── app.py                      # Main Flask application (520 lines)
├── requirements.txt            # Python dependencies
├── README.md                   # Comprehensive documentation
├── QUICKSTART.md              # Quick start guide for graders
├── SUBMISSION.md              # This file
├── setup_and_run.bat          # Windows automated setup
├── setup_and_run.sh           # Linux/Mac automated setup
├── generate_sample_stl.py     # Test STL file generator
├── .gitignore                 # Git ignore rules
├── templates/
│   └── index.html             # Main UI template (330 lines)
├── static/
│   ├── css/
│   │   └── styles.css         # Application styling (550 lines)
│   └── js/
│       └── app.js             # Client-side logic (400 lines)
├── uploads/                   # Temporary upload storage
│   └── .gitkeep
└── outputs/                   # Generated output files
    └── .gitkeep
```

**Total Lines of Code**: ~1,800 lines

---

## 🚀 How to Run (For Graders)

### Method 1: Automated Setup (Recommended)

**On Windows:**
```bash
setup_and_run.bat
```

**On Linux/Mac:**
```bash
./setup_and_run.sh
```

This will:
1. Check Python installation
2. Create virtual environment
3. Install all dependencies
4. Generate a sample STL file
5. Start the application

### Method 2: Manual Setup

1. Create virtual environment:
   ```bash
   python -m venv venv
   ```

2. Activate:
   - Windows: `venv\Scripts\activate`
   - Linux/Mac: `source venv/bin/activate`

3. Install dependencies:
   ```bash
   pip install -r requirements.txt
   ```

4. Run application:
   ```bash
   python app.py
   ```

5. Open browser to `http://localhost:5000`

---

## 🔑 API Key Information

### Option 1: Without API Key (Default)
The application works **completely without an API key** using intelligent rule-based classification. This is sufficient to demonstrate all functionality.

### Option 2: With AI Classification (Optional)
For enhanced AI-powered geometry classification:

**Set environment variable:**
- Windows: `set ANTHROPIC_API_KEY=your-key`
- Linux/Mac: `export ANTHROPIC_API_KEY=your-key`

**API Key Available Upon Request:**
We can provide our API key separately for grading if desired. The application will run approximately 10 requests which should cost < $0.50 total.

---

## ✅ Testing Instructions

### Quick Test (5 minutes)

1. **Start application** (see "How to Run" above)
2. **Generate test file**: Run `python generate_sample_stl.py`
3. **Open browser**: Go to `http://localhost:5000`
4. **Upload** the generated `sample_cube.stl`
5. **Follow the workflow**:
   - Step 1: File uploads automatically
   - Step 2: View mesh analysis → Click "Detect Geometric Regions"
   - Step 3: View detected regions → Click "Classify with AI"
   - Step 4: Review mapping → Optionally edit → Click "Generate STEP"
   - Step 5: Download results

### Comprehensive Test (15 minutes)

Test all features:
- ✓ Drag & drop file upload
- ✓ Units and tolerance settings
- ✓ Mesh statistics display
- ✓ Bounding box calculation
- ✓ Region detection
- ✓ AI/rule-based classification
- ✓ Manual surface type editing
- ✓ Mapping save/update
- ✓ STEP file generation
- ✓ Validation report
- ✓ File downloads (STEP, JSON, Report)

---

## 📊 Grading Checklist

### Functionality (Task 2 Requirements)

| Feature | Status | Notes |
|---------|--------|-------|
| Application runs without errors | ✅ | Tested on Windows/Linux |
| File upload works | ✅ | Drag & drop + browse |
| STL analysis completes | ✅ | Volume, area, bbox |
| Region detection functional | ✅ | Normal-based clustering |
| AI classification works | ✅ | With/without API key |
| User can edit mappings | ✅ | Click-to-edit interface |
| STEP file generates | ✅ | ISO-10303 format |
| Download functionality | ✅ | All file types |
| Error handling robust | ✅ | Graceful failures |

### User Experience

| Aspect | Implementation |
|--------|----------------|
| UI Design | Modern, clean, professional |
| Workflow | Clear 5-step process |
| Feedback | Loading states, progress bars |
| Responsive | Works on different screen sizes |
| Intuitive | No training needed |
| Documentation | Comprehensive README |

---

## 🎯 Key Improvements Over Baseline

### Compared to ChatGPT Baseline (Milestone 1):

1. **Actual File Processing**
   - Baseline: Could only discuss STL files
   - Our app: Processes real STL files

2. **AI Integration**
   - Baseline: No AI-based geometry detection
   - Our app: Claude API for surface classification

3. **Explainability**
   - Baseline: Black box conversion
   - Our app: Shows mapping, confidence, rationale

4. **User Control**
   - Baseline: No editing capability
   - Our app: Interactive mapping editor

5. **Validation**
   - Baseline: No quality metrics
   - Our app: Comprehensive validation report

6. **Professional UI**
   - Baseline: Text-based chat
   - Our app: Modern web interface

---

## 💻 Technical Architecture

### Backend (Flask + Python)
- **Framework**: Flask web server
- **Geometry**: numpy-stl for mesh processing
- **AI**: Anthropic Claude API
- **Data**: JSON for mappings, ISO-10303 for STEP

### Frontend (Vanilla Web)
- **HTML5**: Semantic markup
- **CSS3**: Modern styling, animations
- **JavaScript**: Asynchronous API calls
- **No frameworks**: Pure vanilla implementation

### Key Algorithms
1. **Mesh Analysis**: Volume/area calculations
2. **Region Segmentation**: Normal clustering (tolerance-based)
3. **AI Classification**: Prompt engineering for geometry
4. **Fallback Logic**: Rule-based when AI unavailable
5. **STEP Generation**: Text-based ISO format

---

## 🔧 System Compatibility

### Tested On:
- ✅ Windows 11 (Python 3.11)
- ✅ Ubuntu 22.04 (Python 3.10)
- ✅ macOS Ventura (Python 3.9)

### Browser Support:
- ✅ Chrome 120+
- ✅ Firefox 120+
- ✅ Edge 120+

### Hardware:
- ✅ Lenovo ThinkPad P14s (16GB RAM, T550 GPU)
- ✅ Standard laptops (8GB+ RAM)

---

## 🐛 Known Limitations

1. **STEP File Simplification**
   - Current implementation generates simplified STEP format
   - Full CAD kernel integration (OpenCascade) would require additional dependencies
   - Proof-of-concept demonstrates the workflow

2. **Large File Performance**
   - Files >100K triangles may take longer to process
   - Recommendation: Simplify mesh before conversion

3. **Surface Fitting**
   - Basic geometric primitive detection
   - Advanced NURBS fitting not yet implemented

**Note**: These are documented limitations, not bugs. The application demonstrates the complete workflow successfully.

---

## 📝 Implementation Highlights

### What Makes This Implementation Strong:

1. **Complete End-to-End System**
   - Not just a prototype, but a fully functional application
   - All features from specification implemented

2. **Production-Ready Code**
   - Proper error handling
   - Input validation
   - Logging and debugging support
   - Clean code structure

3. **User-Centered Design**
   - Based on UX research from Milestone 2
   - Intuitive step-by-step workflow
   - Clear visual feedback
   - Professional appearance

4. **Extensibility**
   - Modular architecture
   - Easy to add new surface types
   - API-ready design
   - Well-documented code

5. **Documentation**
   - Comprehensive README
   - Quick start guide
   - Inline code comments
   - API documentation

---

## 📞 Support During Grading

If any issues occur during testing:

1. **Check the QUICKSTART.md** for common solutions
2. **Review console output** for error messages
3. **Check browser console** (F12) for client errors
4. **Try the automated setup** scripts

Common fixes:
- Port conflict? Change port in `app.py`
- Module missing? Run `pip install -r requirements.txt`
- File upload fails? Try `sample_cube.stl`

---

## 🎓 Learning Outcomes Demonstrated

Through this implementation, we've demonstrated:

- ✅ Data-driven engineering principles
- ✅ AI/ML integration in engineering tools
- ✅ Full-stack web development
- ✅ User experience design
- ✅ Software engineering best practices
- ✅ Technical documentation
- ✅ System architecture design
- ✅ API integration
- ✅ Geometry processing algorithms
- ✅ Project management and delivery

---

## 👥 Team Information

**Group 19**
- Jahana Jabbar (4106234)
- Rohit Chandrakant Deshpande (4106190)

**Course**: Data-Driven Engineering
**Semester**: WiSe 2025/26
**Submission Date**: February 2025

---

## 🙏 Thank You

Thank you for taking the time to review our project. We've put significant effort into creating a professional, functional, and well-documented application that demonstrates the full potential of AI-driven engineering tools.

We're confident that CADBridgeAI successfully addresses the challenges identified in our ideation and specification phases, and delivers a superior solution compared to existing tools.

**We look forward to your feedback!**

---

*For any questions or clarifications, please refer to README.md or contact the team.*

Commit message:

Implement .env file for API key config and remove vendor-specific branding

SUBMISSION.md, after:

# CADBridgeAI - Submission Package

**Group 19 | Data-Driven Engineering | WiSe 2025/26**

---

## 📦 Package Contents

This submission contains the complete working implementation of CADBridgeAI, our AI-driven STL to STEP converter.

### File Structure

```
cadbridgeai/
├── app.py                      # Main Flask application (520 lines)
├── requirements.txt            # Python dependencies
├── README.md                   # Comprehensive documentation
├── QUICKSTART.md              # Quick start guide for graders
├── SUBMISSION.md              # This file
├── setup_and_run.bat          # Windows automated setup
├── setup_and_run.sh           # Linux/Mac automated setup
├── generate_sample_stl.py     # Test STL file generator
├── .gitignore                 # Git ignore rules
├── templates/
│   └── index.html             # Main UI template (330 lines)
├── static/
│   ├── css/
│   │   └── styles.css         # Application styling (550 lines)
│   └── js/
│       └── app.js             # Client-side logic (400 lines)
├── uploads/                   # Temporary upload storage
│   └── .gitkeep
└── outputs/                   # Generated output files
    └── .gitkeep
```

**Total Lines of Code**: ~1,800 lines

---

## 🚀 How to Run (For Graders)

### Method 1: Automated Setup (Recommended)

**On Windows:**
```bash
setup_and_run.bat
```

**On Linux/Mac:**
```bash
./setup_and_run.sh
```

This will:
1. Check Python installation
2. Create virtual environment
3. Install all dependencies
4. Generate a sample STL file
5. Start the application

### Method 2: Manual Setup

1. Create virtual environment:
   ```bash
   python -m venv venv
   ```

2. Activate:
   - Windows: `venv\Scripts\activate`
   - Linux/Mac: `source venv/bin/activate`

3. Install dependencies:
   ```bash
   pip install -r requirements.txt
   ```

4. Run application:
   ```bash
   python app.py
   ```

5. Open browser to `http://localhost:5000`

---

## 🔑 API Key Information

### Option 1: Without API Key (Default)
The application works **completely without an API key** using intelligent rule-based classification. This is sufficient to demonstrate all functionality.

### Option 2: With AI Classification (Optional)
For enhanced AI-powered geometry classification:

**Quick Setup:**
1. Edit `.env` file and add your API key
2. Run the app

**Alternative - Set environment variable:**
- Windows: `set ANTHROPIC_API_KEY=your-key`
- Linux/Mac: `export ANTHROPIC_API_KEY=your-key`

**API Key Available Upon Request:**
We can provide our API key separately for grading if desired. The application will run approximately 10 requests which should cost < $0.50 total.

---

## ✅ Testing Instructions

### Quick Test (5 minutes)

1. **Start application** (see "How to Run" above)
2. **Generate test file**: Run `python generate_sample_stl.py`
3. **Open browser**: Go to `http://localhost:5000`
4. **Upload** the generated `sample_cube.stl`
5. **Follow the workflow**:
   - Step 1: File uploads automatically
   - Step 2: View mesh analysis → Click "Detect Geometric Regions"
   - Step 3: View detected regions → Click "Classify with AI"
   - Step 4: Review mapping → Optionally edit → Click "Generate STEP"
   - Step 5: Download results

### Comprehensive Test (15 minutes)

Test all features:
- ✓ Drag & drop file upload
- ✓ Units and tolerance settings
- ✓ Mesh statistics display
- ✓ Bounding box calculation
- ✓ Region detection
- ✓ AI/rule-based classification
- ✓ Manual surface type editing
- ✓ Mapping save/update
- ✓ STEP file generation
- ✓ Validation report
- ✓ File downloads (STEP, JSON, Report)

---

## 📊 Grading Checklist

### Functionality (Task 2 Requirements)

| Feature | Status | Notes |
|---------|--------|-------|
| Application runs without errors | ✅ | Tested on Windows/Linux |
| File upload works | ✅ | Drag & drop + browse |
| STL analysis completes | ✅ | Volume, area, bbox |
| Region detection functional | ✅ | Normal-based clustering |
| AI classification works | ✅ | With/without API key |
| User can edit mappings | ✅ | Click-to-edit interface |
| STEP file generates | ✅ | ISO-10303 format |
| Download functionality | ✅ | All file types |
| Error handling robust | ✅ | Graceful failures |

### User Experience

| Aspect | Implementation |
|--------|----------------|
| UI Design | Modern, clean, professional |
| Workflow | Clear 5-step process |
| Feedback | Loading states, progress bars |
| Responsive | Works on different screen sizes |
| Intuitive | No training needed |
| Documentation | Comprehensive README |

---

## 🎯 Key Improvements Over Baseline

### Compared to ChatGPT Baseline (Milestone 1):

1. **Actual File Processing**
   - Baseline: Could only discuss STL files
   - Our app: Processes real STL files

2. **AI Integration**
   - Baseline: No AI-based geometry detection
   - Our app: Claude API for surface classification

3. **Explainability**
   - Baseline: Black box conversion
   - Our app: Shows mapping, confidence, rationale

4. **User Control**
   - Baseline: No editing capability
   - Our app: Interactive mapping editor

5. **Validation**
   - Baseline: No quality metrics
   - Our app: Comprehensive validation report

6. **Professional UI**
   - Baseline: Text-based chat
   - Our app: Modern web interface

---

## 💻 Technical Architecture

### Backend (Flask + Python)
- **Framework**: Flask web server
- **Geometry**: numpy-stl for mesh processing
- **AI**: Claude API for intelligent classification
- **Data**: JSON for mappings, ISO-10303 for STEP

### Frontend (Vanilla Web)
- **HTML5**: Semantic markup
- **CSS3**: Modern styling, animations
- **JavaScript**: Asynchronous API calls
- **No frameworks**: Pure vanilla implementation

### Key Algorithms
1. **Mesh Analysis**: Volume/area calculations
2. **Region Segmentation**: Normal clustering (tolerance-based)
3. **AI Classification**: Prompt engineering for geometry
4. **Fallback Logic**: Rule-based when AI unavailable
5. **STEP Generation**: Text-based ISO format

---

## 🔧 System Compatibility

### Tested On:
- ✅ Windows 11 (Python 3.11)
- ✅ Ubuntu 22.04 (Python 3.10)
- ✅ macOS Ventura (Python 3.9)

### Browser Support:
- ✅ Chrome 120+
- ✅ Firefox 120+
- ✅ Edge 120+

### Hardware:
- ✅ Lenovo ThinkPad P14s (16GB RAM, T550 GPU)
- ✅ Standard laptops (8GB+ RAM)

---

## 🐛 Known Limitations

1. **STEP File Simplification**
   - Current implementation generates simplified STEP format
   - Full CAD kernel integration (OpenCascade) would require additional dependencies
   - Proof-of-concept demonstrates the workflow

2. **Large File Performance**
   - Files >100K triangles may take longer to process
   - Recommendation: Simplify mesh before conversion

3. **Surface Fitting**
   - Basic geometric primitive detection
   - Advanced NURBS fitting not yet implemented

**Note**: These are documented limitations, not bugs. The application demonstrates the complete workflow successfully.

---

## 📝 Implementation Highlights

### What Makes This Implementation Strong:

1. **Complete End-to-End System**
   - Not just a prototype, but a fully functional application
   - All features from specification implemented

2. **Production-Ready Code**
   - Proper error handling
   - Input validation
   - Logging and debugging support
   - Clean code structure

3. **User-Centered Design**
   - Based on UX research from Milestone 2
   - Intuitive step-by-step workflow
   - Clear visual feedback
   - Professional appearance

4. **Extensibility**
   - Modular architecture
   - Easy to add new surface types
   - API-ready design
   - Well-documented code

5. **Documentation**
   - Comprehensive README
   - Quick start guide
   - Inline code comments
   - API documentation

---

## 📞 Support During Grading

If any issues occur during testing:

1. **Check the QUICKSTART.md** for common solutions
2. **Review console output** for error messages
3. **Check browser console** (F12) for client errors
4. **Try the automated setup** scripts

Common fixes:
- Port conflict? Change port in `app.py`
- Module missing? Run `pip install -r requirements.txt`
- File upload fails? Try `sample_cube.stl`

---

## 🎓 Learning Outcomes Demonstrated

Through this implementation, we've demonstrated:

- ✅ Data-driven engineering principles
- ✅ AI/ML integration in engineering tools
- ✅ Full-stack web development
- ✅ User experience design
- ✅ Software engineering best practices
- ✅ Technical documentation
- ✅ System architecture design
- ✅ API integration
- ✅ Geometry processing algorithms
- ✅ Project management and delivery

---

## 👥 Team Information

**Group 19**
- Jahana Jabbar (4106234)
- Rohit Chandrakant Deshpande (4106190)

**Course**: Data-Driven Engineering
**Semester**: WiSe 2025/26
**Submission Date**: February 2025

---

## 🙏 Thank You

Thank you for taking the time to review our project. We've put significant effort into creating a professional, functional, and well-documented application that demonstrates the full potential of AI-driven engineering tools.

We're confident that CADBridgeAI successfully addresses the challenges identified in our ideation and specification phases, and delivers a superior solution compared to existing tools.

**We look forward to your feedback!**

---

*For any questions or clarifications, please refer to README.md or contact the team.*
